# `stg`

`stg` is used to extract and process ABI representations from libabigail XML,
BTF and ELF/DWARF.

NOTE: This tool is a work in progress. Its arguments and behaviour are subject
to change at short notice.

## Synopsis

```
stg
  [-m|--metrics]
  [-i|--info]
  [-d|--keep-duplicates]
  [-t|--types]
  [-S|--symbols|--symbol-filter <filter>]
  [--skip-dwarf]
  [-a|--abi|-b|--btf|-e|--elf|-s|--stg] [file] ...
  [{-o|--output} {filename|-}] ...
implicit defaults: --abi
filter syntax:
  <filter>   ::= <term>          |  <expression> '|' <term>
  <term>     ::= <factor>        |  <term> '&' <factor>
  <factor>   ::= <atom>          |  '!' <factor>
  <atom>     ::= ':' <filename>  |  <glob>  |  '(' <expression> ')'
  <filename> ::= <string>
  <glob>     ::= <string>
```

## Input

The tool can be passed any number of inputs to combine into a unified ABI.

### Formats

*   `-a|--abi`

    Read ABI XML representation generated by libabigail's `abidw`. Not all ABI
    XML features are consumed. Some XML "tidying" is performed before parsing:

    *   types with naming typedefs are re-anonymised
    *   (rare) duplicate data members are removed
    *   (partial and entire) duplicate type definitions are removed

    After parsing, function parameter and return type qualifiers are removed.

*   `-b|--btf`

    Read ABI information from the `.BTF` ELF section. BTF only covers the C type
    system and can be obtained in the following ways:

    *   `gcc -gbtf` generates BTF instead of DWARF
    *   `clang -c -g -target bpf` works similarly, but only for BPF targets
    *   `pahole -J` reads existing DWARF debug information and adds BTF

*   `-e|--elf`

    Read ABI information from ELF symbols and DWARF types.

    NOTE: C++ DWARF type support is a work in progress.

*   `-s|--stg`

    Read ABI information from a `.stg` file.

    NOTE: The `.stg` format is still novel and subject to change.

### Options

*   `--types`

    Captures all named types found in ELF files as interface types, regardless
    of whether those types are reachable by any symbol.

*   `--skip-dwarf`

    Disable DWARF processing, when reading ELF files. For other formats this
    option does nothing.

## Merge

If multiple (or zero) inputs are provided, then ABI roots from all inputs are
merged.

### Symbols

Symbols must be disjoint across all inputs.

### Types

Merging is not yet supported with type roots.

## Filter

If a symbol filter is supplied, symbols not matching the filter are dropped.

The basic syntactical elements are:

*   `glob` - a glob pattern matching symbol names
*   `:filename` - the name of a file containing a libabigail format symbol list

Filter expressions can be combined with infix disjuction (`|`) and conjunction
(`&`) operators and negated with the prefix (`!`) operator; these obey the usual
precedence rules. Parentheses (`( ... )`) can be used to enclose subexpressions.
Whitespace is not significant, except as a string delimiter.

### Examples

*   `jiffies |panic` - keep just the symbols `jiffies` and `panic`
*   `str*` - keep symbols beginning with `str` such as `strncpy_from_user`
*   `!(*@* & ! *@@*`) - drop versioned symbols that are not the default versions
*   ` !*@*|*@@*` - the same
*   `:include & !:exclude ` - keep symbols that are in the symbol list file
    `include` but not in the symbol list file `exclude`

## Deduplication

ABI representations, particularly merged ones, almost always have some sets of
nodes that are recursively equal. By default, duplicate nodes are eliminated.

*   `-d|--keep-duplicates`

    Skip the deduplication pass.

## Output

*   `-o|--output`

    Zero or more outputs can be requested. The filename `-` is recognised as a
    synonym for stdout.

    The output will be an ABI representation in STG's native format.

    NOTE: The `.stg` format is still novel and subject to change.

## Diagnostics

*   `-m|--metrics`

    Print various internal timing and other metrics.

*   `-i|--info`

    This causes the BTF and ELF parsers to dump information to stdout about the
    entities processed. This is primarily useful for debugging. In the case of
    BTF input, the output is intended to match the output of `bpftool btf dump
    file "$file" format raw`.
