doc/stg.md, before:

# `stg`

`stg` is used to extract and process ABI representations from libabigail XML,
BTF and ELF/DWARF.

NOTE: This is a work in progress and should be considered *experimental*. All
arguments and behaviour are subject to change.

## Synopsis

```
stg
  [-m|--metrics]
  [-i|--info]
  [-u|--unstable]
  [-a|--abi|-b|--btf|-e|--elf] [file] ...
  [{-o|--output} {filename|-}] ...
implicit defaults: --abi
```

## Input

The tool can be passed any number of inputs to combine into a unified ABI.

### Formats

*   `-a|--abi`

    Read ABI XML representation generated by libabigail's `abidw`. It is very
    strongly recommended that ABI XML be passed through `abitidy --all` first as
    `stgdiff` cannot resolve issues such as duplicate types in "untidy" XML.

*   `-b|--btf`

    Read ABI information from the `.BTF` ELF section. BTF only covers the C type
    system and can be obtained in the following ways:

    *   `gcc -gbtf` generates BTF instead of DWARF
    *   `clang -c -g -target bpf` works similarly, but only for BPF targets
    *   `pahole -J` reads existing DWARF debug information and adds BTF

*   `-e|--elf`

    Read ABI information, stored inside ELF in DWARF format.

    NOTE: Only ELF symbol information, and not DWARF type information, is
    currently processed.

## Reading options

*   `--process-dwarf`

    Enable DWARF processing, when reading ELF files. For other formats this
    options does nothing.

## Merge

If multiple (or zero) inputs are provided, then a symbol merge operation is run.

The resulting ABI has the union of the inputs' symbols, which must be disjoint.

## Output

*   `-o|--output`

    Zero or more outputs can be requested. The filename `-` is recognised as a
    synonym for stdout.

    The output will be an ABI representation in STG's native format.

    NOTE: This functionality is currently stubbed out; no output occurs.

    NOTE: There are currently no format stability guarantees and this should be
    considered *completely experimental*.

*   `-u|--unstable`: Use internal node ids in the ABI representation, instead of
    stabilised external node ids.

    This is intended for debugging purposes.

## Diagnostics

*   `-m|--metrics`

    Print various internal timing and other metrics.

*   `-i|--info`

    This causes the BTF and ELF parsers to dump information to stdout about the
    entities processed. This is primarily useful for debugging. In the case of
    BTF input, the output is intended to match the output of `bpftool btf dump
    file "$file" format raw`.

Commit message:

stg: add deduplication pass
After reading and merging graphs and before writing output:

* deduplicate the graph

The option `-d|--keep-duplicates` inhibits this.

This pass currently uses the `Fingerprint` function to generate a hash
mapping to feed to `Deduplicate`.

PiperOrigin-RevId: 499790586
Change-Id: I85f948ddec68c2b1a76e1faeb3af198cd3e177d7

doc/stg.md, after:

# `stg`

`stg` is used to extract and process ABI representations from libabigail XML,
BTF and ELF/DWARF.

NOTE: This is a work in progress and should be considered *experimental*. All
arguments and behaviour are subject to change.

## Synopsis

```
stg
  [-m|--metrics]
  [-i|--info]
  [-d|--keep-duplicates]
  [-u|--unstable]
  [-a|--abi|-b|--btf|-e|--elf] [file] ...
  [{-o|--output} {filename|-}] ...
implicit defaults: --abi
```

## Input

The tool can be passed any number of inputs to combine into a unified ABI.

### Formats

*   `-a|--abi`

    Read ABI XML representation generated by libabigail's `abidw`. It is very
    strongly recommended that ABI XML be passed through `abitidy --all` first as
    `stgdiff` cannot resolve issues such as duplicate types in "untidy" XML.

*   `-b|--btf`

    Read ABI information from the `.BTF` ELF section. BTF only covers the C type
    system and can be obtained in the following ways:

    *   `gcc -gbtf` generates BTF instead of DWARF
    *   `clang -c -g -target bpf` works similarly, but only for BPF targets
    *   `pahole -J` reads existing DWARF debug information and adds BTF

*   `-e|--elf`

    Read ABI information, stored inside ELF in DWARF format.

    NOTE: Only ELF symbol information, and not DWARF type information, is
    currently processed.

## Reading options

*   `--process-dwarf`

    Enable DWARF processing, when reading ELF files. For other formats this
    options does nothing.

## Merge

If multiple (or zero) inputs are provided, then a symbol merge operation is run.

The resulting ABI has the union of the inputs' symbols, which must be disjoint.

## Deduplication

ABI representations, particularly merged ones, almost always have some sets of
nodes that are recursively equal. By default, duplicate nodes are eliminated.

*   `-d|--keep-duplicates`

    Skip the deduplication pass.

## Output

*   `-o|--output`

    Zero or more outputs can be requested. The filename `-` is recognised as a
    synonym for stdout.

    The output will be an ABI representation in STG's native format.

    NOTE: This functionality is currently stubbed out; no output occurs.

    NOTE: There are currently no format stability guarantees and this should be
    considered *completely experimental*.

*   `-u|--unstable`: Use internal node ids in the ABI representation, instead of
    stabilised external node ids.

    This is intended for debugging purposes.

## Diagnostics

*   `-m|--metrics`

    Print various internal timing and other metrics.

*   `-i|--info`

    This causes the BTF and ELF parsers to dump information to stdout about the
    entities processed. This is primarily useful for debugging. In the case of
    BTF input, the output is intended to match the output of `bpftool btf dump
    file "$file" format raw`.
